**Key Insights from Exploratory Data Analysis & Implication for Methodology**

There are three key takeaways from Exploratory Data Analysis. First, the number of clinical trials using Questionnaire is almost three times of that using Patient Diary, and the number of clinical trials using 1 measure significantly exceeds that using 2 measures. An imbalanced dataset is an issue for MLC, because it will affect the model’s ability to effectively learn the decision boundary, resulting in poor predictions for the minority class in the testing dataset. This suggests the need to adjust the weight parameters in MLC models to avoid biased predictions towards the majority class,

Second, the average number of participants in IPCT equals 451 but only 17% of which recruited more than this number. Similarly, the average study duration of IPCT equals 883 days but only 39% of which had a duration longer than this. This suggests that the dataset is highly left skewed and outlier examination and Box-cox transformation is required to fix the nonnormality of the dataset before fitting it to the models.

Third, the adoption of outcome measures seems to be much lower in China than in other countries, suggesting an association between outcome measures and the type of country (developing or developed) in which clinical trials were conducted. Also, the adoption of outcome measures seems to be more common in clinical trials that have a minimum age eligibility of 12 years old or above, implying clinical trials recruiting teenagers as participants may be more likely to use these measures. These findings provide good implications for feature selection in the subsequent research methodology section.
